docs: section about transfer processes (#184)
eclipse-edc/docs: developer/wip/for-contributors/contributor-handbook.md

through the system, they transition through several
states ([`TransferProcessStates`](#221-state-machines)).

Once a contract is [negotiated](#214-contract-negotiations) and an [agreement](#215-contract-agreements) is reached, the
consumer connector may send a transfer initiate request to start the transfer. In the course of doing that, both parties may provision additional resources, for example deploying a
temporary object store, where the provider should put the data. Similarly, the provider may need to take some
preparatory steps, e.g. anonymizing the data before sending it out.

This is sometimes referred to as the _provisioning phase_. If no additional provisioning is needed, the transfer process
simply transitions through the state with a NOOP.

Once that is done, the transfer begins in earnest. Data is transmitted according to the `dataDestination`, that was
passed in the initiate-request.

Once the transmission has completed, the transfer process will transition to the `COMPLETED` state, or - if an error
occurred - to the `TERMINATED` state.

The Management API provides several endpoints to manipulate data transfers.

> Here's a diagram of the state machine applied to transfer processes on consumer side:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a diagram of the state machine applied to transfer processes on consumer side:
```

![Transfer Process Consumer State Machine](diagrams/transfer-process-consumer-states.png)

> Here's a diagram of the state machine applied to transfer processes on provider side:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a diagram of the state machine applied to transfer processes on provider side:
```

![Transfer Process Provider State Machine](diagrams/transfer-process-provider-states.png)

> A transfer process can be initiated from the consumer side by sending a `TransferRequest` to the connector management API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A transfer process can be initiated from the consumer side by sending a `TransferRequest` to the connector Management API:
```

```json
{
    "@context": {
        "@vocab": "https://w3id.org/edc/v0.0.1/ns/"
    },
    "@type": "https://w3id.org/edc/v0.0.1/ns/TransferRequest",
    "protocol": "dataspace-protocol-http",
    "counterPartyAddress": "http://provider-address",
    "contractId": "contract-id",
    "transferType": "transferType",
    "dataDestination": {
        "type": "data-destination-type"
    },
    "privateProperties": {
        "private-key": "private-value"
    },
    "callbackAddresses": [
        {
            "transactional": false,
            "uri": "http://callback/url",
            "events": [
                "contract.negotiation",
                "transfer.process"
            ],
            "authKey": "auth-key",
            "authCodeId": "auth-code-id"
        }
    ]
}
```

where:

- `counterPartyAddress`: the address where to send the `TransferRequestMessage` via the specified `protocol` (currently [`dataspace-protocol-http`](#27-protocol-extensions-dsp))

> -  `contractId`: the ID of a previously negotiated [contract agreement](#215-contract-agreements) through the [contract negotiation](#214-contract-negotiations) process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `contractId`: the ID of a previously negotiated [contract agreement](#215-contract-agreements) which is a result of the [contract negotiation](#214-contract-negotiations) process.
```

- [`transferType`](#2171-transfer-and-data-flows-types) and the [`dataDestination`](#2172-about-data-destinations) define how and where the data transfer should happen.
- [`callbackAddresses`](#2173-transfer-process-callbacks) custom hooks in order bo be notified about state transition of the transfer process.
- `privateProperties`: custom properties not shared with the counter party.

##### 2.1.7.1 Transfer and data flows types

> The transfer type defines the channel (Distribution) for the data transfer and it depends on the capabilities of the [data plane](#3-the-data-plane). The `transferType` available for a data offering is available in the `dct:format` of the `Distribution` when inspecting the [catalog](#216-catalog) response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transfer type defines the channel (Distribution) for the data transfer and it depends on the capabilities of the [data plane](#3-the-data-plane) if it can be fulfilled. The `transferType` available for a data offering is available in the `dct:format` of the `Distribution` when inspecting the [catalog](#216-catalog) response.
```

> Each transfer type also characterizes the type of the flow, which can be either [pull](#21711-consumer-pull) or [push](#21712-provider-push) and it's data can be either [finite](#21712-finite-and-non-finite-data) or [non-finite](#21712-finite-and-non-finite-data)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each transfer type also characterizes the type of the flow, which can be either [pull](#21711-consumer-pull) or [push](#21712-provider-push) and data transmission can be either [finite](#21712-finite-and-non-finite-data) or [non-finite](#21712-finite-and-non-finite-data)
```

###### 2.1.7.1.1 Consumer Pull

> A pull transfer is when the consumer receives informations (`DataAddress`) on how to retrieve data from the Provider. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A pull transfer is when the consumer receives information (in the form of a `DataAddress`) on how to retrieve data from the Provider. 
```

7. The Provider Data Plane acknowledges the Provider control plane and attach the `DataAddress` generated.
8. The Provider Control Plane notifies the start of the transfer attaching the `DataAddress` in the [`TransferStartMessage`](https://docs.internationaldataspaces.org/ids-knowledgebase/v/dataspace-protocol/transfer-process/transfer.process.protocol#22-transfer-start-message).
9. The Consumer Control plane receives the `DataAddress` and dispatch it accordingly to the configured runtime. Consumer can either decide to receive the `DataAddress` using the eventing system [callbacks](#2173-transfer-process-callbacks) using the `transfer.process.started` type, or use the [EDRs](#218-endpoint-data-references) extensions for automatically store it on consumer control plane side.
10. With the informations in the `DataAddress` such as the `endpointUrl` and the `Authorization` data can be fetched.
11. The Provider Data plane validates and authenticates the incoming request and retrieves the source `DataAddress`.
12. The he provider data plane proxies the validated request to the configured backend in the source `DataAddress`.

###### 2.1.7.1.2 Provider Push

> A push transfer is when the Provider data plane initiates sending data to the consumer provided destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A push transfer is when the Provider data plane initiates sending data to the destination specified by the consumer.
```

2. The Provider Control Plane retrieves the `DataAddress` of the actual data source and creates a `DataFlowStartMessage` with both source and destination `DataAddress`.
3. The Provider Control Plane asks the selector which Data Plane instance can be used for this data transfer
4. The Selector returns an eligible Data Plane instance (if any)
5. The Provider Control Plane sends the `DataFlowStartMessage` to the selected Data Plane instance through [data plane signaling](#29-data-plane-signaling) protocol.
6. The Provider Data Plane validates the incoming request
7. If request is valid, the Provider Data Plane returns acknowledgement
8. The `DataPlaneManager` of the the Provider Data Plane processes the request: it creates a `DataSource`/`DataSink` pair based on the source/destination data addresses
9. The Provider Data Plane fetches data from the actual data source (see `DataSource`)
10. The Provider Data Plane pushes data to the consumer services (see `DataSink`)

###### 2.1.7.1.2 Finite and Non-Finite Data

> The charaterization of the data applies to either `push` and `pull` transfers. Finite data applied to a transfer process, means that once the transmission has finished, the transfer process transtitions to the state `COMPLETED`, for example a transfer of a single file that is hosted and transferred into a cloud storage system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The charaterization of the data applies to either `push` and `pull` transfers. Finite data transfers cause the transfer process to transitition to the state `COMPLETED`, once the transmission has finished. For example a transfer of a single file that is hosted and transferred into a cloud storage system.
```

> Non-finite data means that once the transfer process request has been accepted by the provider the transfer process is in `STARTED` state until it gets terminated by the consumer or the provider. Exampes of Non-finite data are streams or API endpoins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Non-finite data means that once the transfer process request has been accepted by the provider the transfer process is in the `STARTED` state until it gets terminated by the consumer or the provider. Exampes of Non-finite data are streams or API endpoins.
```

On the provider side transfer processes can also be terminated by the [policy monitor](#27-policy-monitor) that periodically watches over the on going transfer and checks if the associated [contract agreement](#215-contract-agreements) still fulfills the contract [policy](#212-policies).

##### 2.1.7.2 About Data Destinations

A data destination is a description of where the consumer expects to find the data after the transfer completes. In a "
provider-push" scenario this could be an object storage container, a directory on a file system, etc. In a
"consumer-pull" scenario this would be a placeholder, that does not contain any information about the destination, as

> the provider "decides" on which endpoint he makes the data available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the provider "decides" which endpoint he makes the data available on.
```
